# this is the first version
This project is to run a Raspberry PI as an audio device. The device is able to do 2 function: as
a sound collector and as a test-tone generator

Table of Content:
	1. Configuration Instructions
	2. Installation Instructions
	3. Operating Instructions
	4. File list(Manifest)
	5. Copyright / XCopyleft
	6. Contact Information
	7. Credits and Acknowledgements

1. Configuration Instructions

The application is running on a Raspberry Pi 3 model B. This PI should come with a USB sound card, a RJ45 straight-through cable,
a network connection, a microphone.

A/ Configure USB sound card as default audio device

	1. Use "lsusb" command to check if your USB sound card is mounted
	
	2. Use "sudo nano /etc/asound.conf" command and put following content to the file
		pcm.!default{
			type plug
			slave {
				pcm "hw:1,0"
			}
		}
		ctl.!default{
			type hw
			card 1
		}
	3. Use “nano .asoundrc” command and put the same content to the file.
	
	4. Run “alsamixer”, then you should be able to see that USB sound card is the default audio device.
       For a more sensitive sound detection, it is better to maximize the volume of “Mic”.
	   
B/ Install Libcurl library

	1.	First use command "ls /usr/include/curl" or "ls /usr/include/arm-linux-gnueabihf/curl" to identify that libcurl library is installed.

	2.	Then if the folder doesn’t exist. Run “sudo apt-get update” to update the application list.

	3.	Run “sudo apt-get install libcurl3” to install the libcurl3.

	4.	Finally, run “sudo apt-get install libcurl4-openssl-dev” to install the development API of libcurl4.

2. Installation Instruction:
	
	To kick off, we need to have a SD card for this Raspberry PI 3. To continue with. connect the RJ 45 cable from the Raspberry to the internet.
Then Initialize Raspberry. After that, connect the sound card to Raspberry and then also connect the microphone to the sound card. In the end, 
supplying power to Raspberry by using the power supply(5V) from your PC or laptop to connect. Check the email for your IP address.

	To download the source code, you need to write a command "git clone https://github.com/e1800930/appdev". And then put "ENTER". After that all of the source 
code had already downloaded, and it is ready to be executed.
	
3. Operating Instructions:

	Open the Putty windows, enter your IP address, which you had received via email, into Putty. For easier coding and running your multi-task at the same time, 
it would be better if you duplicate your Sessions. Enter your user name and password.Then go to file document of this application by using command "cd appdev".
Make file to compile the application by using command "make" .List all the file by using command "ls" to see file "sound.a". To run this application, use command
"./sound.a", and you would see the bar which is illustrated for the sound. Speak to the microphone to record the sound. The duration of recording is 1 second.
8 pieces of data would be saved to file sound.txt . Stop recording by pressing Ctrl + C.

4. File manifest
	4.1 main.c
		The file which is the main file containning the functions of other .c file to run the program.
	4.2 sound.c (included header files sound.h, comm.h, and screen.h)
		Display information of WAVE file format and display .wav file data.
	4.3 screen.c (included header files screen.h)
		Display .wav file data in bar-diagram.
	4.4 comm.c (included header file comm.h)
		Send data to server.
	4.5 makefile
		Compile all the file.

5. Copyright and license

A/ Copyright:
	
	Copyright is a legal right, existing in many countries, that grants the creator of an original work exclusive rights to determine whether, and under what conditions,
this original work may be used by others.

B/Copyleft:

	Copyleft, distinguished from copyright, is the practice of offering people the right to freely distribute copies and modified versions of a work with the stipulation
that the same rights be preserved in derivative works created later. Copyleft software licenses are considered protective or reciprocal, as contrasted with permissive 
free-software licenses.

==>>> In this case, you are following the "copyleft rights". You can use all of the source code that you had installed to you SD card for this project. And having the 
right to change the source code as your wish. 

6. Contact information

Tran Hien
Dept, Information technology
Vaasa University of Applied Sciences
Woffintie 30, 65100, Vaasa, Finland
http://www.cc.puv.fi/~e1800930/
Email: trhien541@gmail.com

7. Credits and Acknowledgements
	
	Thanks to Gao Chao guidances and supervises in this Application Development course.
